

Single executable, `gmx`
========================

All tools are merged to a single executable, gmx.
So
```
editconf
```
now becomes
```
gmx editconf
```

The real main function is in src/programs/gmx.cpp.

All executables, such as `editconf` and `mdrun`, are now modules
that are added in `src/programs/legacymodules.cpp`.

For example, in the function `registerLegacyModules(&manager)`
```
registerModule(manager, &gmx_mdrun, "mdrun", "...");
```
enables `gmx mdrun`, which will call `gmx_mdrun(argc, argv)`,
which is defined in `src/programs/mdrun/mdrun.cpp`.

The sources of the modules distributed in

* `src/gromacs/gmxana`:         `editconf`, `gmx_rms`, `gmx_wham`, ...

* `src/gromacs/gmxpreprocess`:  `pdb2gmx`, `grompp`, `solvate`, ...

* `src/programs/mdrun`          `mdrun`, ...



Trajectory anaylsis tools
==========================

## How are modules added into GROMACS?

It is done in `legacymodules.cpp`,
which provides a single function `registerLegacyModules()`
that adds all modules to `gmx`.


## Simplest example

The simplest and relatively self-contained tool is probably `gmx_morph`
whose source code is `src/gromacs/gmx_morph.c`.

Another example is `gmx_gyrate`,
whose source code is `src/gromacs/gmx_gyrate.c`.



Separate `mdrun` program
=========================

However, mdrun can be compiled as a separate executable
as is done by `src/programs/mdrun_main.cpp`

```
int main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    return gmx::CommandLineModuleManager::runAsMainCMain(argc, argv, &gmx_mdrun);
}
```

Thus, the main function basically calls `gmx_mdrun()`,
which is defined in `src/programs/mdrun`.
So it can basically changed to

```
int main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    gmx_mdrun(argc, argv);
}
```

But the latter approach will miss many commandline options like `-h`, etc.




## CMakeLists.txt

This option is turned on in `CMakeLists.txt`
```
file(GLOB MDRUN_SOURCES mdrun/*.c mdrun/*.cpp)
add_library(mdrun_objlib OBJECT ${MDRUN_SOURCES})
...
elseif(GMX_BUILD_MDRUN_ONLY)
    add_executable(mdrun $<TARGET_OBJECTS:mdrun_objlib> mdrun_main.cpp)
    target_link_libraries(mdrun libgromacs ${GMX_EXE_LINKER_FLAGS})
    set(BINARY_NAME "mdrun${GMX_BINARY_SUFFIX}")
    set_target_properties(mdrun PROPERTIES
        OUTPUT_NAME "${BINARY_NAME}"
        COMPILE_FLAGS "${OpenMP_C_FLAGS}")
    install(TARGETS mdrun DESTINATION ${BIN_INSTALL_DIR} COMPONENT mdrun)
    file(WRITE ${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/gmx-completion-${BINARY_NAME}.bash
         "complete -o nospace -F _gmx_mdrun_compl ${BINARY_NAME}")
    install(FILES ${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/gmx-completion-${BINARY_NAME}.bash
            DESTINATION ${BIN_INSTALL_DIR} COMPONENT runtime)
```

This chunk of code is explained below.

* `file(GLOB MDRUN_SOURCES mdrun/*.c mdrun/*.cpp)`
  collects all .c and .cpp files in `MDRUN_SOURCES`.

* `add_library(mdrun_objlib OBJECT ${MDRUN_SOURCES})`
  collects all object files compiled from `MDRUN_SOURCES` in `mdrun_objlib`.

* `add_executable(mdrun $<TARGET_OBJECTS:mdrun_objlib> mdrun_main.cpp)`
  adds the objects of `mdrun_objlib` and `mdrun_main.cpp`
  as the source of the program `mdrun`.

* `target_link_libraries(mdrun libgromacs ${GMX_EXE_LINKER_FLAGS})`
  adds everything in `libgromacs` in the `mdrun`.

* `set(BINARY_NAME "mdrun${GMX_BINARY_SUFFIX}")`
  adds the proper suffix to `mdrun`.
  For example, the suffix could be `_d` for the double-precision floating-point numbers.



Adding an `mdrun`-like program
================================

There seems to be two ways to do so.
The first is to add a module to `gmx`.
The second is to add a standalone file.

Here is example of the second approach.
We will create a stand-alone program called `mdfoo`.

Step 1. Copy the directory `mdrun` to `mdfoo`
```
cp -r mdrun mdfoo
```


Step 2. Add a file `mdfoo_main.cpp`
```
#include "mdfoo/mdrun_main.h"

#include "gromacs/commandline/cmdlinemodulemanager.h"

int main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    return gmx::CommandLineModuleManager::runAsMainCMain(argc, argv, &gmx_mdrun);
}
```
Note that it is almost the same as `mdrun_main.cpp`
except the first line is changed from `mdrun/mdrun_main.h` to `mdfoo/mdrun_main.h`.


